she was too weak to be harmless there are absurd comic universes, and there are spooky scary absurd universes, but i'm not sure the two mix well. we understand that fright, connotatively, is paralyzing—think scared stiff. it's why we can't look away. and it's more than slightly ironic that most uncritically-thinking critics (me) call out horror media for being 'unrealistic.' because unreality is precisely what these fictions offer; they are scary because the rules of reality have changed, making it ir. that's why it doesn't matter if the babysitter chooses to hide in the closet or the basement or the attic or any other enclosed, exitless space that screams "murder me here," instead of just calling the cops or running outside. because it wouldn't matter. because there is no "outside" in horror. it's the entire foundation of reality that's shifted an inch to the left, exposing a hole. that's why it doesn't bother me when A doesn't comment on the grim confection commercials that seem impossibly too anticapital to ever be aired on TV. Not only does her paralysis make sense in the face of the uncanny, more importantly, you can't call reality unrealistic. and for her, and for us, it is real. but, unfortunately, this book is about 30 % too funny. humor offers us another window into the absurd, but we expect the main character to be in on the joke. they understand that nothing makes sense, and thus act accordingly to their own gain. and this Yossarian/Heller-esque knowledge is the exact converse of the paranoia (which is really a fear of suspected knowledge) and creeping, totalizing sense of not-rightness that produces effective postmodern dread. the end result was never displeasing; the funny bits were funny and the terror-filled parts were terrific. but the overall mood of the piece suffered (see tonally disruptive concepts like disappearing dad disorder, which felt like a joke pulled from weird twitter). and thematically, I was less sure what kleeman was trying to say. from a completely cynical perspective, a 'funny' book seems less important "to literature," whatever that is, which makes it harder to trick nebbish book readers into deifying you (the only goal of EVERY WRITER--IM LOOKING AT U, ME) but perhaps im just a complete asshole CONTENT THOUGHTS - kleeman hasnt gotten a lot of credit as a prose stylist, though she certainly is one, as evinced thru passages like: "freezers full of frosted flesh cast a low blue light," where u can almost feel the consonant fricatives gliding into the ululating assonant glottal noise of 'low,' 'blue' and 'light' (did i mention i used 2 b an english major). another example: "most substances machinate more subtly." she also just uses language and syntax inventively, finding the darker way to describe the ordinary actions and movements that make up the bulk of the novel. see: "the tires turning against the road, rubbing themselves out on it" - at the same time, she is also the sort of writer who, as a rule, would rather use an unfamiliar adjectival form over a familiar one. so: "It was palindromic," over the probably preferably "it was a palindrome." see: 'vulvar.' - while probably the best novel starring a copy editor ive ever read, it's also the only novel starring a copy editor i've ever read. which, conversely, makes it the worst novel starring [ditto] i've ever read as well. - the jacket flap copy writer is pretty sure you'll want to compare kleeman with pynchon, delillo and fucking paul auster (which, for review purposes, it would be helpful if i had ever actually read any of them), but i think kleeman has a lot to offer that i really doubt any of the aforementioned white men could bring to the genre. "body" is a novel novel that is concerned with consumption both figurative and literal, and i would recommend it to anyone interested in body politics or writing on anorexia in general. - and if you're not interested in digging that deeply, you can still read it (esp. the scenes between A and B) as a horror movie set inside a barbie doll house. - that fact that im mentioning this only just now says a lot about my own biases than anything, but kleeman struggles with plot, including a twist regarding B and C's relationship that will surprise absolutely no one cognizant of standard plot conventions. The ending too, felt like something out of student writing, where the author realizes she needs to make her character dynamic, have an epiphany, and regain the will to live all in 500 words or fewer. - its not at all surprising that kleeman is a phd candidate, who is interested in things like literary analysis. but sometimes great thesis material doesn't make for the most engrossing pacing... - overall feedback: could have used more riveting copy editing scenes. ('watch out! there's an error of substitution right behind u!) he had seemed like a different person, or the same person acting differently, an even scarier thought
