she was too weak to be harmless there are absurd comic universes, and there are spooky scary absurd universes, but i'm not sure the two mix well. we understand that fright, connotatively, is paralyzing—think scared stiff. it's why we can't look away. and it's more than slightly ironic that most uncritically-thinking critics (me) call out horror media for being 'unrealistic.' because unreality is precisely what these fictions offer; they are scary because the rules of reality have changed, making it ir. that's why it doesn't matter if the babysitter chooses to hide in the closet or the basement or the attic or any other enclosed, exitless space that screams "murder me here," instead of just calling the cops or running outside. because it wouldn't matter. because there is no "outside" in horror. it's the entire foundation of reality that's shifted an inch to the left, exposing a hole. that's why it doesn't bother me when A doesn't comment on the grim confection commercials that seem impossibly too anticapital to ever be aired on TV. Not only does her paralysis make sense in the face of the uncanny, more importantly, you can't call reality unrealistic. and for her, and for us, it is real. but, unfortunately, this book is about 30 % too funny. humor offers us another window into the absurd, but we expect the main character to be in on the joke. they understand that nothing makes sense, and thus act accordingly to their own gain. and this Yossarian/Heller-esque knowledge is the exact converse of the paranoia (which is really a fear of suspected knowledge) and creeping, totalizing sense of not-rightness that produces effective postmodern dread. the end result was never displeasing; the funny bits were funny and the terror-filled parts were terrific. but the overall mood of the piece suffered (see tonally disruptive concepts like disappearing dad disorder, which felt like a joke pulled from weird twitter). and thematically, I was less sure what kleeman was trying to say. from a completely cynical perspective, a 'funny' book seems less important "to literature," whatever that is, which makes it harder to trick nebbish book readers into deifying you (the only goal of EVERY WRITER--IM LOOKING AT U, ME) but perhaps im just a complete asshole CONTENT THOUGHTS - kleeman hasnt gotten a lot of credit as a prose stylist, though she certainly is one, as evinced thru passages like: "freezers full of frosted flesh cast a low blue light," where u can almost feel the consonant fricatives gliding into the ululating assonant glottal noise of 'low,' 'blue' and 'light' (did i mention i used 2 b an english major). another example: "most substances machinate more subtly." she also just uses language and syntax inventively, finding the darker way to describe the ordinary actions and movements that make up the bulk of the novel. see: "the tires turning against the road, rubbing themselves out on it" - at the same time, she is also the sort of writer who, as a rule, would rather use an unfamiliar adjectival form over a familiar one. so: "It was palindromic," over the probably preferably "it was a palindrome." see: 'vulvar.' - while probably the best novel starring a copy editor ive ever read, it's also the only novel starring a copy editor i've ever read. which, conversely, makes it the worst novel starring [ditto] i've ever read as well. - the jacket flap copy writer is pretty sure you'll want to compare kleeman with pynchon, delillo and fucking paul auster (which, for review purposes, it would be helpful if i had ever actually read any of them), but i think kleeman has a lot to offer that i really doubt any of the aforementioned white men could bring to the genre. "body" is a novel novel that is concerned with consumption both figurative and literal, and i would recommend it to anyone interested in body politics or writing on anorexia in general. - and if you're not interested in digging that deeply, you can still read it (esp. the scenes between A and B) as a horror movie set inside a barbie doll house. - that fact that im mentioning this only just now says a lot about my own biases than anything, but kleeman struggles with plot, including a twist regarding B and C's relationship that will surprise absolutely no one cognizant of standard plot conventions. The ending too, felt like something out of student writing, where the author realizes she needs to make her character dynamic, have an epiphany, and regain the will to live all in 500 words or fewer. - its not at all surprising that kleeman is a phd candidate, who is interested in things like literary analysis. but sometimes great thesis material doesn't make for the most engrossing pacing... - overall feedback: could have used more riveting copy editing scenes. ('watch out! there's an error of substitution right behind u!) he had seemed like a different person, or the same person acting differently, an even scarier thought

im probably not the best person to write this review (always a promising sign of whats to come) because not only do i dislike poetry, but also emotions, adjectives and the companionship of humans. ok that’s it

melissa broder is writing poetry like “i am a fuck demon in a fuck castle” but also OK’d using the phrase “et al” in her back flap blurb. what that means is that broder is writing a special sort of dumb poetry that only smart ppl are allowed to like

i mean, i guarantee there’s a college student out there rite now ready to be all: ‘the visceral imagery underscores the dreary violence of existence — while the lacunae of broder’s porous text signify in many directions: to the sky, the water, inward and outward and to a god in whose existence we are not convinced. The author seems to question and recalibrate in a constant attempt to understand herself, her sex and her positionality on earth”

you are not yourself, and what's worse, you know it so call the literary cops of the Anyone Who Remotely Gives A Care department, cause here's something i've discovered: lidia yuknavitch is a goddamn plagiarist. ok, a self-plagiarist, but still. as some of u may recall, back in an age of innocence, a naive, starry-eyed lil bitty baby zan wrote a wine-soaked, grudgingly admiring review of yuknavitch's "the small backs of children," which you can fondly reread right here. well hold the phone, charlene, then carefully replace the phone in its analog cradle. then shoot the phone. basically, the first 30 % of "the small backs of children" = the first 40 % of "siberia: still life of a moving image," the 58-page semi-novella that closes out this collection of short "fictions"... so if u loved thrilling passages like... -the frozen severed arm that somehow never transforms into a fully-cooked shank of roast beef in comical, tom-and-jerry-esque, meat-o-vision fashion -the sexi prisoner back scrubbing scene w/ bonus ‘mole constellation’ reference -the scientist character who talks nonstop, references galileo in a “everything is infinite” kind of way, and then gets shot in the throat +/- 2 seconds before freedom -bargain-bin holocaust scenery w/o all the guilt -and so much more! ...then you’ll probably be vaguely annoyed with yuknavitch’s retroactive ctrl+c, ctrl+v from “siberia.” in short, the plagiarism/copying/”artistic revision” ranges from the broad strokes of the story (single iconic photograph, deadly blast orphan girl + old lady potato) to singular moments, like the dog’s tongue mistaken for a kissing prison guard...and while these moments of recognition attest to yuknavitch’s ability to craft striking and memorable images, lines and scenes, it also felt like i was cheated out of my $13.95. after doing so research (read: half-hearted googling) it doesn’t seem like yuknavitch has ever publicly acknowledged what she was doing, which is annoying too. a friend argued that there can be a real pleasure to charting an artist’s oeuvre, noting connections and the telling reused words and phrases (“pearl of come” might be one for yuknavitch). but seeing human “need machine,” (a line i liked so much i tweeted it) repeated in “real to reel” just made the phrase seem less special, at least to me so… yea. i dont have my copy of “small backs” anymore (i deemed it the literary equivalent of one metric unit of bananagrams during my escape from liberty st./satan’s crib), so i cant really do a line-by-line comparison. but it’s worth noting that “siberia” doesnt include any of the alcoholic artist mystery team or the girl’s escape to america, while “small backs” doesnt have the ‘winking-biographical’ elements/40-yr-old roar of the woman pain, which ends in shitting and pissing on a hardwood floor. in that way, “small backs” is actually much more a flirtation with the conventional literary thriller, while “real to real” is more concerned with overarching thematic concerns and emotions. its hard to judge “siberia” having already read its reiteration, but i think i prefer it. A FEW RUSHED CONTENT THOUGHTS -this has been a fairly negative review (i dont like plagiarism), but overall this collection wasnt that bad. the first two stories “scripted” and “male lead” were both easily 5-star fictions. the first just had great voicing and explored some concerns about authenticity that didn’t need a plot to mask them, while the second featured an honestly hilarious aping of the stoner bro dialect… tho it also felt the farthest from yuknavitch’s usual style. -the rest of the stories: “beatings” and “how to lose an eye” are definitely skippable. i wasnt entirely sure “chair” was a story. “blue movie” and “signification” were good but i wasnt quite in the right mood to appreciate them. “shooting” felt like it was mostly interesting because of what i know about yuknavitch’s actual life. -honestly, i sometimes wonder if my real problem as a reader is that yuknavitch is trying to “say” something that im not rlly ready to hear. as an english major who is legally obligated to pontificate about the “universal” value of literature, i dont even kno if i buy this line of thinking, but sometimes i wonder if im too young, too male, too not a 40-yr-old former drug addict to rlly ‘get’ what yuknavitch is all about. that im not picking up what she’s laying down. women, who can blame them for being pissed and insane

nothing, nothing mattered i would highly recommend clicking on the wikipedia page 4 "the stranger" to any 12-yr-old, then explaining to ur mom that ur are now an "extenZe-ialist" over a plate of 'hot wheels' fruit snacks. i would also highly recommend NOTHING TIPS FOR HOW TO TALK ABOUT THIS BOOK AT A PARTY -spend most of high school thinking that existentialism means "totally depressed" or possibly "death blackness plz no." quietly reflect that existent = existence w/ that weird suffix "alism" during a math class u will later fail. tell no one of ur epiphany. -realize that "party" denotatively means 'fun social gathering,' but connotatively means "amalgamation of ppl u would normally avoid making eyecontact w/ + alcohol. realize that it's hard to beat "+ alcohol" -listen politely as the kid every1 thinks is a "genius" says the words "death drive" "foucault" "dostoevsky" and "camus" in approximately 3.28 seconds. -NOW'S UR CHANCE; u: hey wat did the existentialist cow say after it tried to cross the road cool lady: ??? u: life is pointless... also... "cam-MOO" *silence* CONTENT THOUGHTS -like most readers, i came into this book with the received knowledge/vague plot summary of “guy kills guy, feels nothing, everything is random.” what surprised me, then, was how difficult it was for the admittedly blasé meursault to accept existentialism—and his own death. here’s what the protagon has to say on death row, trying very dearly to reason himself into an appropriately futile frame of mind. he gives himself two options. a) death now, by execution. b) a pardon now, and death in twenty years, from old age. since he’ll feel the same fear of death whenever his deathbed happens to occur, “it’s obvious that when and how don’t matter. therefore (and the difficult thing was not to lose sight of all the reasoning…) i had to accept the rejection of my appeal.” “then and only then would i… consider the alternative hypothesis: i was pardoned. the trouble was that i would somehow have to cool the hot blood that would suddenly surge thru my body and sting my eyes with a delirious joy with words like “hypothesis” “rational” and “reason,” camus heightens our sense of the dry, almost scientific nature of existentialism as a philosophy. “hypothesis” suggests a theory, something to be tried in principle, but whose soothing or palliative reassurance that “nothing matters” pales in the faces of meursault’s “hot blood”-ed animalistic will to live. of course, in the final pages of the book, camus throws in a “the grand inquisitor lite” scene and meursault ultimately has a dostoyevskian ‘come-to-jesus’ moment, except instead of accepting christ’s all encompassing love, it’s black skinny jeans and spiked belts from hot topic that he embraces. so w/e -shoutout to the U.P. in general and sault sainte marie in specific for convincing me not to pronounce the protagonist’s name as merSALT -translator matt ward takes a big ole shit all over stuart gilbert’s previous translation… which is apparently standard etiquette for translators. ward also claims tht “no sentence in french literature in english translation is better known than the opening sentence” of the stranger. that is not true. the most famous sentence of french literature in english translation is “cheese-eating surrender monkeys.” -the voicing reminded me of henry chinaski, except without all the hard drinking… except plus some of the hard drinking. -in summary, no matter what ur assigned convo partner in ms. mitchell’s fourth period english class has to say, i would highly recommend stroking ur chin, and replying “that may be true… but who truly was camus’ stranger? meursault, the arab… or us??” whereas, once again, the machine destroyed everything: you were killed discreetly, with a little shame and with great precision
