Slam poet Anthony McPherson came to Willamette’s Cat Cavern on Thursday, April 6 swollen with passion. Right off the bat, his opening salvo about digesting Donald Trump’s presidency after having the first Black president set the tone for a night of resistance, millennial angst and many, many artfully-crafted words.

“You thought Trump was a joke / you thought the Purge was a movie,” began his wordplay. “It is not a game, it is not reality TV; the Apprentice has become the master.” Here, McPherson castigated the dead myth of post-racial America, mentioning the icon of cultural appropriation, Miley Cyrus and the betrayal of Dr. Ben Carson (who recently referred to slaves as “immigrants”).

This was not a typical audience of Willamette students; “prospies,” or prospective students staying overnight in dorms with Bearcat undergrads were sitting in on McPherson’s set to get a taste of entertainment at a liberal arts college. This event must have been a real escape for visiting high schoolers.

Oddly enough, McPherson performed a piece about his departure from Oklahoma to New York City at 18, describing his feelings about saying good-bye to his family and their hardships, including eviction and seeing his relatives grow older, mentioning the not-yet-wrinkled face of his mother and memories of summer bliss. He lets them know that he will “go hard” for his family and succeed; obviously, McPherson is excellent at his craft.

The slam poet stopped to interact with audience members not just with stage banter, but by asking someone in the crowd to “teach him ballet.” It was playful and slightly awkward, but organic.

At times, McPherson sounded a bit like Kendrick Lamar in his vocal inflections, and approached his subject matter with a youthful frustration. He talked about how others perceive him, his views of himself and his unabashed support of Black Lives Matter and the love he feels for his community.

Not having gone to any event like this when I visited Willamette, I don’t have memories of seeing events on campus before deciding to attend this school. However, after seeing McPherson’s vibrant performance last Thursday, I could imagine accepting my invitation to become a Bearcat based on W.E.B.’s choice of entertainment and the political fervor that would seduce me into making that decision.

By now, everyone and their mother has heard “Bad and Boujee”, a top-rated banger from Migos and Lil Uzi Vert that came out right before Halloween last year. With a Metro Boomin tag at the beginning of the track, reprising the Future quote, “if Young Metro don’t trust you I’m gon shoot you,” this flagrant and infectious single celebrates Migos’ explosive come-up.

For added bravado, the video for “Bad and Boujee” cheekily has the rappers and fashionably dressed women drinking champagne and smoking blunts inside of a fried chicken joint, eating ramen and taking bites out of big, crispy wings between lip-syncing and dancing on the tables. Later, the boys and their crew of sharply dressed female cohorts are shown with Uzi, riding motorcycles and ATVs through the neighborhood, making it another visual masterpiece directed by Daps and a real showcase of member Offset’s ability to carry an entire song.

Far more than just a flash in the pan, Migos’ sophomore LP, “Culture,” has already dramatically outdone their 2015 debut, “Yung Rich Nation,” in album sales — debuting at number one on the Billboard 200 and firmly establishing the Atlanta trio’s revered status in the realm of hip-hop. Their initial LP, of course, has only a fraction of Migos’ beloved tracks; singles like “Versace,” “Hannah Montana” and “Look At My Dab” were released on a flurry of mixtapes in 2015.

A major selling point of “Culture,” contrasted with “Yung Rich Nation,” is the inclusion of big rap names like DJ Khaled, Gucci Mane, 2 Chainz and Travis Scott, along with producers Metro Boomin, Zaytoven and Atlanta-based mixing teams affiliated with 808 Mafia. Gucci, being the most culturally compatible cult figure to the equally drug-obsessed Migos, lays down a verse between all three members’ contributions — perhaps every Migo was excited to be alongside the elusive and perennially incarcerated legend. The title track makes good use of Khaled as a hype man, with his tried-and-true interjections of “You played yourself!” and “Another one!” punctuating Quavo, Offset and Takeoff’s opening statements, as if the song functions like a theme for the rest of “Culture.” “Kelly Price,” the track later in “Culture” featuring Travis Scott, is like a cloudy ballad dedicated to drugs and wild nights, but peppered with memorable lines about getting robbed while watching “Garfield” and the quip, “treat my Lambo like a Fisher Price.”

Unfortunately, 2 Chainz’ presence on “Deadz” is forgettable; the track generally feels like a filler to make this LP hit 13 songs in total. The 39-year-old rapper formerly known as Tity Boi last released his own full-length project in 2013 (“B.O.A.T.S. II: Me Time”) and quite frankly, his age is showing. Some aging artists, like 41-year-old Khaled, have contributed to newer, more youthful projects without seeming like old men in the recording studio, but 2 Chainz comes off as a desperate hanger-on.

However, the best part about Migos is that all three members are enough to carry songs without their flow becoming tiresome; somehow, the trio ends up slowing down for their guests, even though their inclusion looks nice on paper. “T-Shirt,” the second single off “Culture,” has no features and should hopefully catch on with the mainstream, if not for its visually exciting music video. The Zaytoven-produced “Big on Big” is reminiscent of the beatmaker’s iconic album with Future, “Beast Mode,” which is even more exciting if one prefers Migos over Future; the same is true for “Brown Paper Bag.”

This enthusiastic offering from Migos is an infusion of energy at a time when the hip-hop machine is coming up a tad short. And even though Atlanta lost the Super Bowl, the city need not be disappointed with itself — it’s producing some real winners.

True to the “starving college student” trope, most students have lots of anxiety about money, even if they have on-campus jobs. Once you move off campus, worrying about paying for rent, utilities, groceries and outings with friends becomes part of your core identity — furthermore, asking your parents for a cash transfer can be embarrassing, uncomfortable or simply out of the question.

On-campus jobs are great for “real-life” work experience, but student-staffed positions fill up rather quickly (and are sometimes highly competitive). Getting hired at a local business can be equally challenging, and unless it’s at the Capitol, you will have to get used to commuting around town between classes.

Forget signing up with LinkedIn; don’t waste your energy checking Craigslist. Even JobCat can be devoid of openings and leaves you competing with every other job-hungry Bearcat, both student and alumni. NACELink, also available through Willamette, tends to offer warehouse and grocery store positions, which usually drug test and aren’t looking for part-time employees.

Thankfully, many gigs these days only require a laptop and an internet connection. Any student (or individual at large) with confidence, imagination and a punctual work ethic is a good fit for freelance content writing, especially if writing an essay for class every other week proves boring and not personally relevant to one’s interests.

Content writing is a broad category that includes pieces as short as product reviews and as long as full-on how-to guides or edited short stories. Most often, your “boss” will communicate with you through email, providing a topic and some guidelines for the product they expect.

As a private contractor, you are expected to complete these tasks in a timely manner and make life easier for your client; through Googling, asking around and trusting in your abilities, it’s not hard to collect knowledge and information and synthesize it in your own voice, even if you know nothing about the subject matter. Always try to be bold and embellish these particular articles with excitement and a sense of passion toward the product, place or work of art.

If you’ve written for the Collegian before, congratulations: you’re already a published freelance writer. This newspaper pays (even guest writers) $ 10 per article, and some students write several articles per issue — most articles are well under 1,000 words and take about an hour to produce (according to payroll).

Many paths lead to getting employed as a freelance writer, but all of them require patience and initiative. A direct and popular method is to contact a college-targeted outlet like Odyssey or Buzzfeed with pitches or completed articles, although this option might not be paid and your work will be in bad, poorly edited company — in other words, these websites accept almost everything that they receive.

Some content that you’ve already drafted or a convincing pitch might fit a specific website with which you’re familiar: pay attention to when your favorite news outlets or blogs (Complex, Bleacher Report, etc.) have job openings, usually listed at the bottom of the web page. Make sure the job position is labeled “telecommute” or “remote”— at most, these freelancing jobs require a phone call or semi-frequent email conversations. This type of gig will likely give you assignments to complete and guidelines (tone, word count) for that material.

Not getting a response from your dream job? Join a service like FlexJobs, which give you access to telecommuting content jobs for popular websites that aren’t advertising their freelancing positions publicly. With luck, you might have a long and fulfilling work relationship with a big company that needs advertising copy.

If you’re serious about making this a side hustle, sign up with the site Upwork. This large, diverse network connects you and other freelancers to potential clients all around the world. With positive feedback from your clients and a good reputation on the site, it’s easy to earn an increasing amount of pay, especially if your clients ask you to write and develop more of their projects.

No matter how you hack it, enough content writing and experience completing odd jobs will undoubtedly prepare you for making money after college ends. Lest communicating with a boss solely through email feels impersonal, it’s shocking how long some of these professional exchanges can last when you develop trusting and beneficial client-freelancer relationships.

If “24” embodied the spirit of America under the Bush Administration, then “Designated Survivor” is reflective of reality following the once-unthinkable election of Donald Trump.

When FOX canceled “24” in 2010 after nine seasons, most television critics had already stopped caring about the political thriller — in the age of Obama, it was argued, Jack Bauer supposedly represented bygone attitudes about torture and terrorism. Exploding cities, presidential assassinations and red-herring villains from fictional countries, according to the critics, no longer had prime-time viewers on the edge of their seats.

It didn’t matter if Cherry Jones, playing a tough female president, was made to endure a raid on the White House that resulted in a terrorist slapping her across the face — hard. For every viewer who rooted for Jack’s tryst with a spunky, redheaded coworker, another longtime fan grew weary of the campy twists and turns.

After years of growling into a Sprint flip phone, going rogue on his bosses, murdering security guards and not once eating or going to the bathroom for 24-hour intervals, Jack didn’t make sense as a character — he narrowly escaped death from a lethal pathogen and watched most of his friends die before his eyes. Few fans mourned the show’s cancellation.

Kiefer Sutherland, by no means a bit-part actor, had to return to television; he hasn’t yet turned 50 and has the star power to once again carry a show. Tom Kirkman, the affable and humble low-level Cabinet member who suddenly becomes President in the first episode of “Designated Survivor,” is nothing like Jack Bauer — as if Sutherland hadn’t proven his acting chops decades ago.

Every show involving a fictional White House reflects an attitude about the nation’s present state of affairs: “West Wing,” benevolence and wisdom; “24,” the whack-a-mole approach of Bush’s War on Terror; “Veep,” cynicism; “House of Cards,” cronyism.

“Designated Survivor” is about accelerationism: wiping out all the crooks in power at once and replacing them with a virtuous outsider. The initial fantasy wears off in the plot, as some powerful D.C. inhabitants, along with the rest of America, still live to take advantage of this power vacuum. Without a federal government to speak of, governors are free to become despots and hurt marginalized populations.

Imaginative pundits speculate, every so often, that Donald Trump doesn’t want to be president — or that he does, but would likely pass off decision making to the extreme conservatives in his circle. And with Trump being 70, still chowing down on fast food and soda, it’s not uncommon to hear some speculate that he might die soon. Impeachment is a less macabre possibility.

On a network like ABC, one might think broadcasting a scenario in which the capitol gets utterly destroyed would be a step too far, a ludicrous and upsetting concept that no one wishes to actually happen. Bereaved staffers are heard saying things like, “everybody died. Everybody.”

“Designated Survivor” came out in late September, before many voters received their ballots. Without blaming this show directly for Trump’s victory, it would be generous to say no one felt a deep sense of satisfaction seeing the capitol explode and cease to exist, especially during the State of the Union — do most Americans feel that the annual speech is full of truths and promises to be kept?

What’s clear is that the election results have left Americans of all political leanings exasperated and eager to shake off existing leadership (big and small), and “Designated Survivor” lets viewers envision a ridiculous catastrophe for the purpose of catharsis. Years from now, the program might become a symbol for our current climate, as was “24” last decade.

Roughly three years back, Lady Gaga released “ARTPOP,” her third studio album; in this very newspaper, I skewered that LP and declared Miss Stefani Germanotta a failed pop act, a tired trend and a semi-retired video vixen who had worn out her welcome with her fans, the Little Monsters, and critical music fans at large. Gaga’s supposed fall from fame, like many predictions made in 2013, was a miscalculation on my part — her latest release, “Joanne” clearly is in high demand this October, and she’s slated to play Super Bowl VI next February.

“Perfect Illusion” the high-energy earworm now featured in NFL commercials, might as well be Gaga’s “single at last” anthem, considering she split from her partner of five years somewhat recently. Lest we forget she writes a good deal of her music, the superior quality of “Joanne” compared to “ARTPOP” confirms a positive correlation between heartbreak and creative output. The catchy hook is repetitive, yet less melodic than “Bad Romance” or previous songs in which Gaga might have felt more pressure to harmonize. But all in all, it makes for a tremendous first single, something “ARTPOP” failed to accomplish.

In 2016, it seems nearly every white female pop star has sins to atone for — when reviewing “ARTPOP,” plenty of critics remarked at the tone-deaf song “Burqa Swag.” which apparently was renamed to “Aura” amid backlash (with the track’s content left intact). Cries of Gaga’s further cultural appropriation can likely be found in a comprehensive list somewhere, as awareness of such culture-vulture activity has markedly risen between then and now among her young, queer target audience.

A more recent and more widely mocked fumble happened at this year’s Grammys, when Gaga took it upon herself (she now claims reluctance at the idea) to perform a high-energy tribute to the recently deceased David Bowie. But she dizzied and annoyed those watching her on television by bastardizing the icon’s greatest hits and hamming it up with costume changes. All but the handful of people who enjoyed her renditions will likely hold this musical crime against Gaga for years to come — far more, I’d argue, than those appalled by “Burqa Swag/Aura.”

Gaga musn’t apologize for all her activity between “ARTPOP” and “Joanne;” her deeply moving ballad “’Til It Happens to You,” produced for the documentary “The Hunting Ground,” gave voice to and uplifted survivors of sexual assault both on and off college campuses. The song is so uplifting that it seems to have literally scrubbed our collective memories clean of her last album’s duet with known perp R. Kelly, in which she told him (consensually) to “do what you want with my body.”

Thankfully, her collaborations here with Florence Welch, legendary producer Mark Ronson and Josh Homme of Queens of the Stone Age add to Gaga’s strong, confident voice, much like her joint album with Tony Bennett proved to naysayers that the woman behind “LoveGame” and “Telephone” has serious chops. Even when “Joanne” gets really corny, like in “Come to Mama” (the sonic embodiment of throwing up jazz hands), this native New Yorker knows how to sell it convincingly.

In a tone similar to “’Til It Happens to You,” Gaga belts out a cynical ode to society and, apparently, Trayvon Martin, in “Angel Down” and its reprise. This is one of those veiled ballads that doesn’t reveal what its lyrics are actually about until you sit down to write an album review after hearing its contents and discover (via the Huffington Post, no less) that, yes, Lady Gaga really did write a ballad dedicated to Trayvon Martin. Surely, she could leave out this trite source of inspiration from the liner notes, as the pathos goes a bit too far in this specific case.

We who were once Gaga’s Little Monsters are now Big Monsters with an appetite for substance and depth, and in many aspects, she and her team delivered on the promise for a serious, personal album with “Joanne” (named after her late aunt). However, for those who miss the eclecticism and thirst for relevance packed into her first two albums, Gaga’s latest might be somewhat of a snooze. Hopefully, that much-anticipated Super Bowl performance will pump up fans who want more than anything to “just dance.”

Back in 2004, JoJo’s memorable hit “Leave (Get Out)” topped international charts for weeks — the soulful breakup anthem with a 90s beat showcased the vocal talent of a 13-year-old from Vermont. That catchy single wasn’t an accident: “Baby It’s You (ft. Bow Wow)” came out later that year, and, in 2006, JoJo delivered another sultry, yet defiant earworm about falling out of love, “Too Little Too Late.”

Starting from such a young age, JoJo’s changes in maturity and style are quite visible from one year to the next (as is the case with Justin Bieber, Miley Cyrus, etc), and a bit of growth helps her sound more believable when singing about, frankly, adult situations.

Since the release of her second studio album “The High Road,” JoJo has been caught up in legal disputes with labels and executives that prevented her from releasing music, aside from a couple of mixtapes. Much like Kesha’s horrific predicament with Sony, this is a case of an artist holding back from new projects through no fault of their own, and it would be unfair to blame either of them for not seeming relevant in the recent past.

Now 25 years old, JoJo looks very much the same, with the same zeal for hamming it up as an old-fashioned video vixen. During her time between labels on the brink of collapse, she could only share her gift by releasing covers of popular songs — lately, she’s been doing soulful renditions of “Pillowtalk” by Zayn, her viral “response” to Drake’s “Marvins Room” and “Planez” by Jeremih.

There’s something distinctly borrowed, unfortunately, about the title of her latest LP, “Mad Love”: immediately, Taylor Swift’s “Bad Blood” and Katy Perry’s perfume in reference to that song and friendship-ending beef come to mind. Neither this connection nor the periods after each song title should, ideally, cheapen this release, but those details do seem played out or unnecessarily bold.

JoJo must feel the way Rihanna feels about having a lifetime achievement award at 28, in the sense that both young women (millennials, at that) seem like veterans in the industry long before either of them probably intend to retire and stop performing. But unlike RiRi, JoJo has to both make a comeback and define herself as an actual grown-up.

Her vocal affectations were compared to her tone while speaking in interviews, which left the question of labeling her sound as “blue-eyed soul” open for discussion for some. JoJo certainly wants to be in-your-face on this record, like in the pumped-up jam “FAB. (ft. Remy Ma)” or at other moments that sound like the confident, breathy lead-up on Rihanna’s “Needed Me.”

There is a sense of both specificity and vagueness in her Demi Lovato-esqe affirmational bops and ballads that allude to another side of JoJo, but such messages of personal evolution don’t do much for most listeners, who don’t know much about her to begin with.

Alessia Cara, a relative newcomer known for the 2015 alt-pop “Here,” joins forces with JoJo for a vocal flexing competition on “I Can Only.,” and ultimately the two of them waste their efforts on a flat filler track. Wiz Khalifa gets a feature in “Fuck Apologies.,” remaining in the background of the track after his verse with ill-fitting hype man vocals and his signature giggle.

“FAB.” doesn’t bring out the best in Remy Ma, and much like Missy Elliott and Pharrell’s “WTF (Where They From),” this awkward attempt to reclaim slang for a song-specific acronym has failure in its DNA.

JoJo’s powerful voice is best presented in “Mad Love.,” a somewhat retro romantic ballad that has the singer at parts crooning in a sexy whisper before belting out the track’s sweeping chorus.

Overall, the album exhausts itself and rips off too many popular hits released fairly recently, and the track list of “Mad Love.” isn’t catchy enough to signal JoJo’s impending comeback.

Around this time of year, many students get bombarded with hard-to-answer questions about the future.

Even for those not worrying about life after graduation, a lot of Bearcats are still figuring out where to put themselves during the summer months. Not enough people advocate for staying right here in town, instead of hauling belongings home and back once more.

Has your hometown lost its edge? Do your parents still consider grounding you? Are you addicted to the prepaid gym membership? These are all compelling reasons to stay in Salem with friends, classmates and other community members. Not everyone will follow your lead, but doing so might be exciting, if not a rewarding opportunity to test-drive the “real world you.”

Even if settling in town is a last-ditch effort provoked by a lack of plans elsewhere, securing a summer shelter is no easy task. You might not find that great place you want during the school year, and that’s OK. You might also end up living alone, on a friend’s floor or in a sweltering-hot attic. The real treat, though, lies in the experiences you’ll piece together on a whim.

Jobs on campus include the grounds crew, working in the library, an administrative building or Bon Appetit, the latter of which is always hiring. And if you’re employed off campus, it’s refreshing to stop by and hang out in what feels like an exclusive park. The gym becomes especially quiet during this time; no one is around to laugh at your cardio moves.

If you barely go outside during the school year, it’s not hard to assemble a group of otherwise busy friends to go hiking or day drinking at the Santiam River. Closer to home, the Kaneko pool turns into a prime destination for people-watching, tanning and mingling with exhausted hotties post-gym.

A tried-and-true highlight of the summer months is celebrating the Fourth of July here in town, as fireworks are legal for individuals 16 and older. There’s a sizable tent that goes up in front of Party City on Commercial Street that runs the gamut from little poppers to giant explosives that would get you arrested in a neighboring state. You don’t have to be overly patriotic to get excited about these possibilities.

While it seems everyone on Facebook is flaunting their prestigious internship or frolicking in Europe, the flip side to that joy is the pressure that is surely weighing on their shoulders.

You don’t need a LinkedIn to be successful or a change of scenery to see new things. If you assert that you’re having a relaxing and restorative break, its value might start to present itself in a more obvious way.

It helps to remember, also, that not every graduate plans on leaving town immediately. Watching a friend move away can be hard, but tSalem barnacles get to spend a little more time with those about to depart.

Those of us from California are being somewhat responsible by staying in a state with a water supply that allows for guilt-free showers, a necessity for enjoying one’s summer.

Whatever you plan on doing, focus on Number One above all else. Channel George Costanza and make 2015 the Summer of You.

I had no idea that college professors take their students on field trips. They don’t typically call them “field trips;” in this mature setting, we trade in that childish euphemism and say that we’re going on a visit…in lieu of or in addition to regular class hours.

To my surprise, I had the pleasure of leaving campus this semester on two separate occasions: to a biodiesel plant in Salem with my non-major chem class and to the Chinese and Japanese gardens in Portland with Professor Xijuan Zhou of the Religious Studies department.

I hope every Bearcat eventually has a day that transcends the routine of higher education: Your professor takes the English class outside for the afternoon, everyone in the room wants to debate the politics of “The Dark Knight” or maybe, a cute classmate laughs at your joke.

Either way, it’s a moment that makes showing up worthwhile.

On the way to the biodiesel plant, us students were alone in the van, as one of us had University permission to lead the way. It was oddly quiet in the vehicle—were my peers also marveling at the novelty of it all?

We didn’t spend long at the stripped-down factory, and by the looks of the workers, they seemed eager for us to get out of their way. Yet I will never again think about used cooking oil the same: Our guide pointed to a vat of dirty lipids from Oregon restaurants and prisons that, through refining, becomes a sustainable energy source.

In contrast, the trip to Portland was more of a voluntary experience, since it required waking up early on a Sunday and hopping on a 9 a.m. school bus in front of the Chicken Fountain (Zhou calls it the Eagle Fountain—a far superior name).

Like many exhausted students, I always second guess attending almost any event or gathering related to school, convinced that my laziness is inescapable.

But this time, I sensed, correctly, something unique about the day ahead. With the proper context, otherwise typical Portland tourist attractions became supplemental material for my intro to Chinese religions class.

At the Lan Su Garden, the scenery from the course’s thousand-year-old stories came to life and I felt deeply engrossed in every plaque on the property.

During our lunch break, Zhou, my friend and I connected in the boutique Tao of Tea house (the brand served at the Bistro) and ate marvelous moon cakes and marbled eggs.

It was a joint trip with another one of Zhou’s classes, so the later stop at the Japanese gardens didn’t directly relate to our material. I still gained major insight into the positioning of the rocks, the prevalence of rock lanterns and how calming the flow of water can feel.

But Sunday is a precious day, reserved for the push and pull between procrastination and determination, making a non-vital absence completely understandable.

It’s just impossible to anticipate opportunities like these on the horizon. For all I know, education may never be this fun or dynamic again.

Until the next surprise, I’ll fondly remember the van giggling as hail pounded the roof on the way back from the biodiesel plant.

Most of us are going to become parents one day, either voluntarily or by chance.

In my experience at Willamette, that’s a statement that inspires fear, denial and, ultimately, stoic acceptance when brought up in conversation. The “bubble” on campus, aside from (allegedly) shrinking one’s worldview, protects this population of 18- to 22-year-olds from dealing with or seeing young children very often.

Two years of dorm life can nearly eliminate interactions with newborns or toddlers, reducing those beings to mere ideas.

Save for individuals who babysit or spend their summers as a camp counselor, some of us might not even know how to talk to a youngster.

The prospect of producing a baby seems unfathomable while pursing higher education. One careless romp could jeopardize a fast-paced internship, a semester in Italy and the capacity of one’s paycheck.

With so much to lose, procreation becomes a thing to abhor and avoid, like a beverage spilled near a laptop.

Unlike the countless movies and TV shows unpacking high school motherhood, there’s no modern blueprint for this experience in college. We know about “Teen Moms,” but not what it’s like to be “Thesising and Pregnant.”

Times have changed, sort of. While not exactly commonplace, Bearcats still get engaged as undergrads, unafraid to embrace the cheesy aspects of young love. Sixty years ago, female students were expected to look for a husband in college; loyal ladies’ degrees were nicknamed “Ph.Ts” (Putting Husband Through).

It might be acceptable to get married before graduating, but dropping out of school to raise a child seems truly countercultural.

What parents (or would-be grandparents) would be so open-minded as to put an education on pause indefinitely? Do student loans have maternity leave?

There’s one huge caveat to my observations: this is Willamette, not a more religious school like Corban or George Fox. On this matter, I would not hesitate to call our University a liberal echo chamber, stifling the biological instincts of the masses.

Newly born things, after all, have fans at every age. Puppies, kittens and ducklings make heads turn, and tiny humans can be just as awe-inspiring. We cannot rule out people that want to mate in order to have a smaller, cuter version of themselves.

There’s also non-traditional students, who might not immediately seem older than the rest of the herd. Many Bearcats forget their classmates who have served in the military, are already married and living with a spouse or who otherwise have more life experience than a 20-year-old.

Those undergrads might see the option of parenthood in a different light.

When I confronted my female friends with some questions on the matter, they grappled with their persisting immaturity; one acknowledged that on some weekends, she “still wakes up drunk in the morning.”

Estimating when they’d be “ready” for pregnancy ranged from five to eight years from now, and there was a tone of disbelief in the room. No one felt like they needed a thorough explanation for their aversion to motherhood.

Babyphobia reflects the anxieties of the young and ambitious who still feel like they’re having trouble taking care of themselves. Babies raising babies sounds less inspiring than “the blind leading the blind.”
